account for something - to explain the reason of something
accuse someone of something - to charge someone with something wrong (e.g., a crime, an offense)
add something to something - to put something together with something else
agree about/on something - to have the same opinion about something as someone else
agree with someone / something - to have the same opinion as someone else
answer for something - to be responsible for one's actions
apply for something - to make an application or request for something
approve of something - to be in favor of something
argue about something - to disagree or quarrel about something
argue with someone - to quarrel with someone
arrive in (some city) - to come to some city
ask about someone / something - to ask for information about someone or something
ask for something - to request something
be above someone / something - to be higher than (literally and figuratively)
be after - to be later than the specified hour
be against something - to oppose something
be into something - to be interested in something
be out of something - not to have
begin with something - to start with something
believe in someone / something - to have faith in someone / something
belong to someone - to be property of someone
blame someone for something - to say that someone is responsible for something wrong
borrow something from someone - to take and have to give back / pay back
break into (a house) - to get in by force
break with - to sever relations; to cease one's connection with someone or something
call someone at (this telephone number) - to dial the number and speak to someone
care about someone / something - 1. to like; 2. to be interested in something
care for someone / something - 1. to like; 2. to want; 3. to look after someone / something
change something for something - to exchange for, trade for something
1. change into something - to put on a new set of clothes; 2. change into someone / something - to turn into, to convert into someone / something different
charge for something - to ask as a price for service or goods
check (new words) in / with a dictionary / reference book
check into (a hotel, a hospital) - to register at arrival
check out of (a hotel) - to pay the bill and leave (the hotel)
come across something - to find by chance
come from (some place) - to be from (some place)
come into (some place) - to enter
come to something - to reach (place, result, position, state, etc.)
comment on something - to give one's opinion about something
compare someone / something with someone / something - to examine to see the difference or similarity
complain about something - to be dissatisfied with something
complain to someone - to report a complaint to somebody
concentrate (something) on something - to give full attention to something
congratulate someone on something - to express praise to someone for success in something
connect to - to join two things together
connect with - 1. to have a connection with; 2. to join two things together
consent to something - to agree to something
consist of - to be composed of (parts, ingredients)
contribute something to something - to give (money, time, etc.)
correspond with someone - to be in correspondence with
count on someone - to depend / rely on someone
count to (some number) - to count
dedicate something to someone / something - 1. to devote one's time to someone / something; 2. to do something in honor of someone
depart for (some place) - to leave for (some place)
depart from (some place) - to leave (some place)
depend on someone / something - 1. to be conditioned by; 2. to rely on, to count on someone
devote (life, time, energy) to someone / something - to spend much time on something
disagree about/on something - to have different opinions
disagree with someone / something - to have a different opinion from someone else
do without something - to live without something
drive at - to drive at a certain speed
drop out of school - to quit school
equip someone / something with something - to provide with necessary things
excuse someone for something - to forgive someone for something
expect something from someone - to expect (good work, results, etc.)
explain something to someone - to make clear
fall in love with someone or something - to begin to love
fall over something - to trip over something and fall
feel about - to have an opinion about
forget about someone / something
forgive someone for something
get into something - to enter (place, state, etc.)
get off the bus, train, plane - to leave the bus, train, plane
get on the bus, train, plane - to take a bus, train, plane
get out of (some place) - to exit
get over something - to recover from an illness or bad experience
get through something - to go through something
get to (some place) - to reach (some place)
give something to someone - to present, to hand something to someone / something
go by - 1. to go past someone / something, pass by; 2. to travel using some transport
go down (the stairs, road, etc.) - 1. to descend; 2. to go along the street
go for something - to go and do something
go into something - 1. to enter; 2. to examine in detail
go over/through something - to review, to look through something
go through something - 1. to move through, pass through something; 2. to look through something
go to (some place) - to reach, visit, travel to, attend (some place)
go up (the stairs, the hill, etc.) - to climb (the stairs, the hill, etc.)
graduate from (school) - to finish school
happen to someone
have something against someone - to have a reason to be against
hear about someone / something - to learn about someone /something
hear from someone - to have news from someone
help someone with something - to assist someone with something
hint at something - to suggest something indirectly
hint to someone - to suggest something indirectly to someone
inform someone about/of something - to tell someone about something
insist on something - to demand
introduce someone to someone - to present someone to other people
invest something in something - to put in (money, hopes, work, time)
invite someone to something - to ask to come as a guest
judge by something - to form an opinion on the basis of something
knock at/on (the door, wood) - to beat lightly on something
lag behind someone - to be behind others in something
laugh at - 1. to laugh (at a funny joke); 2. to make fun of someone /something
lead to something - 1. to guide to someone / something; 2. to result in something
leave for (some place) - 1. to go to (a place); 2. to abandon one thing and start another
leave from (some place) - to depart from (some place)
leave something to someone - to give something to someone (as inheritance or for work)
lend something to someone - to give something to someone on the condition of returning it
listen to someone / something - 1. pay attention by listening; 2. to obey
live on something - 1. to live on a certain street; 2. to live on certain food; 3. to live on certain income
long for something - to desire, want very much
look after someone / something - to watch, take care of someone /something
look at someone / something - 1. to take a look at someone / something; 2. to consider something
look for someone / something - to search for someone / something
look into something - to examine, investigate something
look out of (the window) - to look outside
look over / through something - to examine, go over, go through something
make from - to produce, to create something from something
be made of - to be made up of some material
mark with something - to make more visible
move into (a house) - to begin to reside in (a house)
move to (another city, house) - to change the place of living
name someone after someone - to name in honor of someone
object to something - to be against something
offer (a certain sum) for something - to intend to give
offer something to someone - to intend to give
open with something - 1. to open with a tool; 2. to start with
owe for something - to have to pay for something
owe to someone - 1. have to pay back to someone; 2. to feel indebted to someone / something
pass by someone / something - to go past, go by someone / something
pay for something - to give money for something
point at someone - to direct (a finger, gun) to someone
prefer (one thing) to (another) - to like one thing more than the other thing
prevent someone from doing something - to stop someone from doing something
provide with something - to give, supply with
pull into something - 1. to drag into; 2. to come to some place (about a vehicle)
pull out of something - 1. take out of; 2. to leave (about a vehicle)
push someone into something - to make someone get in
reach for something - to stretch one's hand to get something
rely on someone / something - to count on, depend on someone / something
remind someone of, remind someone about something - to help to remember
remove something from (a place) - to take away from (a place)
replace someone / something by/with someone / something
report on something - to give information on something
report something to someone - to inform someone about something
run across - to meet or find by chance
run for - 1. run to get something; 2. to try to get a position of
run into someone - to meet by chance
run out of something - 1. to run outside; 2. to end (about supplies)
run to - 1. to go to someone for help or advice; 2. to come to the amount
save (something) for someone / something - to preserve, put aside for future use
save someone from something - to rescue someone from danger, harm, failure, loss, etc.
say something about something - to express an opinion about something
search for someone / something - to look for someone / something
see through something - to see what is behind something
shout at someone - to yell at someone
speak about something - to talk about something
speak to/with someone - to talk to/with someone
spend (money, time) on something
stand by someone / something - to support, be loyal to someone
stand for something - to symbolize, mean
start with something - to begin with something
stay at (some place) - to live at some place for a while
stay with someone - to be with someone, visit with someone
stop at - to stop at a certain place
stop someone from doing something - to prevent someone from doing something
take after someone - to resemble one's parents in character or looks
take someone for someone - to confuse someone with someone else
talk about something - to speak about something
talk someone into something - to persuade into doing something
talk someone out of something - to persuade someone out of doing something
talk to/with someone - to speak to/with someone
tell someone about something - to inform someone about something
tell by something - to judge by something
thank someone for something - to say thank you
think about/of someone / something
touch on something - to mention as a subject
translate something into (another language)
translate something from (another language)
turn around (the corner) - to go around (the corner)
turn into someone / something - to change into someone / something
turn to someone / something - to move and face someone / something
vote for someone / something - to vote in favor of someone / something
vote against someone / something - to oppose someone / something
wait for someone / something
warn about something - to advise about (risk, danger, etc.)
warn against something - to advise to avoid something
wonder about something - to think about something with curiosity or trying to understand
wonder at something - to admire, marvel at or be surprised by something
work at - 1. to have a job at some place; 2. work at/on something - to work (hard) on something
work for - 1. to work for an employer; 2. to get a certain pay for work
work in (some place) - to have a job at some place
worry about someone / something - to feel concerned about someone / something
write about something or someone - to describe in writing
write to someone - to address letters to someone
