ask someone out - to invite someone for a date
back off - to move back
back out - to fail to keep a promise
back up - 1. to block the passage; 2. to support
be around - to be nearby
be away - to be out of town
be back - to return
be in - to be present
be off - 1. to be disconnected (about water, electricity); 2. to leave
be on - 1. to be switched on; 2. to be shown on screen
be out - to be not in
be over - to end
be through with something - to finish doing something
be up - 1. to rise; 2. to end (about time)
beat up - to beat something / someone
bend down - to stoop down
bite off - to separate part of something by biting
blow away - to be taken away by the wind
blow up - to explode
break down - 1. to become broken; 2. to go to pieces
break in - to enter by force
break off - to separate by breaking
break through - to advance, to achieve success
break up - 1. to break something into pieces; 2. to cease having a relationship
bring along - to bring (with you) to some place
bring back - 1. to return; 2. to recall, remember again
bring up - 1. raise children; 2. introduce a new topic
brush aside / off - to refuse to pay attention to something, to ignore
brush up on something - to review, to improve something by studying
burn down - to burn to the ground
burn out - 1. to burn completely; 2. to stop functioning (literally / figuratively)
call back - to return a telephone call
call in - to invite a specialist for consultation and help
call off - to cancel, to stop something from happening
call up - to telephone, to call by phone
calm down - to relax, stop worrying
carry out - to fulfill, to complete
catch up with someone - to reach the same level or position as somebody ahead
check in - to register (in the hotel at arrival, at the airport for the flight, etc.)
check off - to mark an item on a list (usually with a check)
check out - to pay the bill and leave (the hotel)
chop down (a tree) - to cut down (a tree)
chop off - to cut off
chop up - to cut up, to cut into pieces
clean out - to clear out
clear away / off - 1. to remove objects for more space; 2. to disappear (about the fog, smoke)
clear out - to clean out
clear up - 1. to become brighter (about the weather); 2. to clean, to tidy up; 3. to make clear, to explain
close down - to shut down
come along - to join someone
come back - to return
come by - to drop in / drop by
come down with (some illness) - to become ill
come in - to enter
come on
come out - to go out
come over - to visit informally
come up to someone - to come closer to someone
count in - to include
count out - to exclude
cross out - to remove from a written text
cut down - 1. to chop down (a tree); 2. to reduce
cut down on something - to reduce something (out of necessity)
cut off - 1. to chop off; 2. to disconnect (electricity, water, telephone)
cut out - to cut out of (paper)
do over - to do again
drop by / drop in - to visit informally
drop someone off at some place - to let someone out of the car at some place
drop out - to quit school
fall apart - to fall to pieces, to fail, to drift apart
fall down - to fall
figure out - to find an answer, to understand
fill in - to write in
fill out - to complete a form
fill up - to make full
find out - to discover
get along - to get on, to make progress
get along with someone - to be on good terms with someone
get away - 1. to escape; 2. to have a holiday away from home
get back - to come back
get in - to get inside
get on - to get along, to make progress
get out - to get outside
get up - to rise
give back - to return something
give in - to yield, to surrender
give up - to stop doing or trying to do something
go away - to leave
go back - to return to (some place, state, etc.)
go by - to pass (about time)
go down - to become lower
go off - 1. to give a sudden loud sound (about an alarm clock, car alarm, etc.); 2. to be switched off (about light, electricity)
go on - to continue
go out - to go outside; to go outside for entertainment
go up - to rise
grow up - to become a grown-up
hang up - 1. to place something on a hook; 2. to put down the receiver
hold on - 1. to continue holding firmly; 2. to wait; to wait on the telephone
hold up - 1. to delay someone; 2. to perform armed robbery
keep down - to prevent from rising, keep at a lower level
keep on - to go on doing something
keep out - not to enter
keep up with someone - to remain at the same level as someone richer, faster, more advanced, etc.
knock down / knock over - to make someone / something fall down
knock out - to defeat, to cause to stop functioning
lay off - 1. to reduce staff or dismiss workers temporarily; 2. (slang) to stop bothering someone
leave out - to omit, exclude
let down - to fail someone
let someone in - to allow someone to come in
let someone out - to allow someone to get out
lock up - to close using a lock
look around - to see what is around
look back - to turn back and look
look forward to something - to expect with eagerness
look out - to watch out, be careful
look up - 1. to direct the eyes upward; 2. to search for some information in a reference book
make up - 1. to compose, create (a story, plan, etc.); 2. to apply cosmetics; 3. to become friends again
move in - to begin to reside in some place
move out - to leave one's place of residence
move over - to move and give space
pass away - to die
pass by - to go by, to pass
pass out - to lose consciousness
pay back - 1. to repay, return a debt; 2. to get even with someone
pay off - 1. to repay a debt in full; 2. to bribe
pay up - to pay fully
pick out - to select
pick up - 1. to lift; 2. to collect someone /something by car
point out - to draw attention to something
pull in - to come to some place (about a train, bus, car)
pull off - 1. to take off (boots, sweater, etc.); 2. to leave (about a train, bus, car)
pull out - 1. to take out; 2. to leave (about a train, bus, car)
pull over - to drive to the side of the road and stop the car at the curb
pull through - to survive
pull oneself together - to regain self-control
pull together - to work together as a team
pull up - 1. to lift by pulling; 2. to stop (about a car)
push away - to move something / someone away from oneself
put aside - 1. to set aside; 2. to save; 3. to disregard something on purpose
put away - to remove, take away
put back - to return something to its place
put down - 1. to put something lower; 2. to write down
put off - to postpone
put on - 1. to dress; 2. to gain weight
put out - to extinguish (fire, cigarette, light)
put up with something - to tolerate something
run away - to escape (from)
run out - 1. to get out; 2. to end (about time, supplies)
run over - to knock down with a car
see you around
see someone off - to go to the place of departure and say goodbye
set apart - 1. to reserve (money) for future use; 2. to be different from other things or people
set aside - 1. to put aside; 2. to reserve for someone; 3. to disregard something on purpose
set back - to set the time to an earlier time
set forward - to set the time to a later time
set up - 1. to establish, arrange, organize, construct (a business, a company, an appointment, a record, etc.); 2. to maneuver and trick someone
show off - to try to impress someone, to boast
show up - to appear, arrive
shut down - 1. to close down; 2. to switch off electricity
shut up - 1. to lock, to be locked; 2. (rude) to close one's mouth
sit down - to take a seat
sit up - 1. to rise to a sitting position (from lying); 2. to stay up; 3. to sit upright
slip out - to slip outside (about objects, people, facts, secrets, etc.)
slow down - to reduce the speed of something
speak up - 1. to speak more loudly; 2. to express one's opinion openly
stand back - to move back
stand by - 1. to stand near some place; 2. to wait, to be ready for some action
stand out - to be noticeable (about people, objects)
stand up - to rise
start out - to begin a journey
stay away from someone / something - to keep away from someone / something
stay up - not to go to bed till very late
stop by - to come by, drop by
switch off - to turn off
switch on - to turn on
take back - to take, accept
take off - 1. to remove (clothes); 2. to lift off
take out - to take something out of something
take over - to take control
talk back to someone - to answer rudely
talk over - to discuss
tear down - to take down, to demolish
tear off - to tear from
tear out - to rip from
tear up - to destroy by tearing into pieces
tell apart - to see the difference
think over - to consider carefully
think up - to make up (a plan, idea, etc.)
throw out - to throw away, to get rid of
throw up - to vomit
try on - to put on new clothes to see if they fit
try out - to test
turn around - to turn and face what's behind
turn away
turn back - to turn and go back
turn down - to decline, to refuse
turn off - to switch off
turn on - to switch on
turn out - to appear to be
wake up - to awake
watch out - to look out, be careful
welcome back - to greet someone's return
work out - 1. to devise, invent (a plan, an idea); 2. to fix, result, succeed (about a difficult situation); 3. to train at the gym
write down - to put in writing
write in - to add something into a written text
